Introduction

Goal: LLM and NLP using libraries from HF ecosystem-Transformers, Dtasets, Tokenizers, Accelerate

NLP: Field of linguistics and ML focused on understanding human language. Text generation, Speech recognition
LLM: Revolutionised NLP with models like GPT, Llama. Shifted from task specific models to general purpose models.

Common NLP tasks: Classifying sentences, Classifying words, Generating text, Extracting answers

NLP: It is teaching a kid how to read books, write, understand
LLM: It is like when kid grows up and becomes smart--they can answer on theor own.

Characteristics of LLM: Scale (billions of parameters), General capabilities, In-context learning from prompt, Emergent abilities.

Pipeline

The 🤗 Transformers library provides the functionality to create and use those shared models
Tasks: Text classification, zero-shot classification, Text generation, Tetx completion, Token classification, Question answering, Summarization, Translation

The most basic object in the 🤗 Transformers library is the pipeline() function. It connects a model with its necessary preprocessing and postprocessing steps, allowing us to directly input any text and get an intelligible answer.


Available pipelines for different modalities

Text-pipelines
text-generation: Generate text from a prompt
text-classification: Classify text into predefined categories
summarization: Create a shorter version of a text while preserving key information
translation: Translate text from one language to another
zero-shot-classification: Classify text without prior training on specific labels
feature-extraction: Extract vector representations of text.

Image pipelines
image-to-text: Generate text descriptions of images
image-classification: Identify objects in an image
object-detection: Locate and identify objects in images

Audio pipelines
automatic-speech-recognition: Convert speech to text
audio-classification: Classify audio into categories
text-to-speech: Convert text to spoken audio

Multimodal pipelines
image-text-to-text: Respond to an image based on a text prompt

Carbon footprint of transformers

code carbon
Ml emissions calculator (https://mlco2.github.io/impact/)


Transformer models
GPT : Auto-regressive transformer models
BERT : Auto-encoding transformer models
T5 : Sequence-to-sequence transformer models
Llama
Mistral

Self-supervised learning is a type of training in which the objective is automatically computed from the inputs of the model. That means that humans are not needed to label the data.
This type of model develops a statistical understanding of the language it has been trained on, but it’s less useful for specific practical tasks. Because of this, the general pretrained model then goes through a process called transfer learning or fine-tuning. 
During this process, the model is fine-tuned in a supervised way — that is, using human-annotated labels — on a given task.


So first, model learns from data (NLP) and then it goes through transofrmation so it can smartly respond (LLM)--- for smartness--fine tuning is required(by humans)--to achieve a objective. Fine tuning is like giving exam to a model and see if model is ready for final exam.

Sharing language models is paramount: sharing the trained weights and building on top of already trained weights reduces the overall compute cost and carbon footprint of the community.

Transfer learning: Pretraining, Fine tuning

General Transformer architecture

Encoders: Convert inputs(text) to numerical representations (called embeddings or features)--Bidirectiona and self attention mechanism
Decoders: Siilar to encoder; Uni-directional, Auto-regressive and masked self attention


Encoders(sentence classification/Named entity recognition), decoders(text generation), encoders-decoders(translation or summarization)

A key feature of Transformer models is that they are built with special layers called attention layers.



